README.rst, before:


.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/datakortet/yamldirs.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/datakortet/yamldirs

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/datakortet/yamldirs/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github
  :target: https://coveralls.io/github/datakortet/yamldirs?branch=master


yamldirs
========

Create directories and files (including content) from yaml spec.


This module was created to rapidly create, and clean up, directory trees
for testing purposes.

Installation::

    pip install yamldirs

Usage
-----

The most common usage scenario for testing will typically look like this::

    from yamldirs import create_files

    def test_relative_imports():
        files = """
            foodir:
                - __init__.py
                - a.py: |
                    from . import b
                - b.py: |
                    from . import c
                - c.py
        """
        with create_files(files) as workdir:
            # workdir is now created inside the os's temp folder, containing
            # 4 files, of which two are empty and two contain import
            # statements.

        # `workdir` is automatically removed after the with statement.


If you don't want the workdir to disappear (typically the case if a test fails
and you want to inspect the directory tree) you'll need to change the
with-statement to::

    with create_files(files, cleanup=False) as workdir:
        ...


``yamldirs`` can of course be used outside of testing scenarios too::

    from yamldirs import Filemaker

    Filemaker('path/to/parent/directory', """
        - foo.txt |
            hello
        - bar.txt |
            world
    """)

Syntax
------
The yaml syntax to create a single file::

    foo.txt


a single file containing the text `hello world`::

    foo.txt: hello world

for more text it is better to use a continuation line::

    foo.txt: |
        Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, vis no altera doctus sanctus,
        oratio euismod suscipiantur ne vix, no duo inimicus
        adversarium. Et amet errem vis. Aeterno accusamus sed ei,
        id eos inermis epicurei. Quo enim sonet iudico ea, usu
        et possit euismod.

creating two (empty) files::

    - foo.txt
    - bar.txt


two files with content::

    - foo.txt: |
        hello
    - bar.txt: |
        world


directory with two (empty) files::

    foo:
        - bar
        - baz


empty directory (must be the literal string ``empty``::

    foo:
        - empty


nested directories with files::

    foo:
        - a.txt: |
            contents of the file named a.txt
        - bar:
            - b.txt: |
                contents of the file named b.txt


Extending yamldirs
------------------
To extend ``yamldirs`` to work with other storage backends, you'll need to
inherit from ``yamldirs.filemaker.FilemakerBase`` and override the following
methods::

    class Filemaker(FilemakerBase):
        def goto_directory(self, dirname):
            os.chdir(dirname)

        def makedir(self, dirname, content):
            cwd = os.getcwd()
            os.mkdir(dirname)
            os.chdir(dirname)
            self.make_list(content)
            os.chdir(cwd)

        def make_file(self, filename, content):
            with open(filename, 'w') as fp:
                fp.write(content)

        def make_empty_file(self, fname):
            open(fname, 'w').close()

Commit message:

Update documentaton of empty directories.  Deprecate old specification syntax for empty directories.

README.rst, after:


.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/datakortet/yamldirs.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/datakortet/yamldirs

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/datakortet/yamldirs/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github
  :target: https://coveralls.io/github/datakortet/yamldirs?branch=master


yamldirs
========

Create directories and files (including content) from yaml spec.


This module was created to rapidly create, and clean up, directory trees
for testing purposes.

Installation::

    pip install yamldirs

Usage
-----

The most common usage scenario for testing will typically look like this::

    from yamldirs import create_files

    def test_relative_imports():
        files = """
            foodir:
                - __init__.py
                - a.py: |
                    from . import b
                - b.py: |
                    from . import c
                - c.py
        """
        with create_files(files) as workdir:
            # workdir is now created inside the os's temp folder, containing
            # 4 files, of which two are empty and two contain import
            # statements. Current directory is workdir.

        # `workdir` is automatically removed after the with statement.


If you don't want the workdir to disappear (typically the case if a test fails
and you want to inspect the directory tree) you'll need to change the
with-statement to::

    with create_files(files, cleanup=False) as workdir:
        ...


``yamldirs`` can of course be used outside of testing scenarios too::

    from yamldirs import Filemaker

    Filemaker('path/to/parent/directory', """
        - foo.txt |
            hello
        - bar.txt |
            world
    """)

Syntax
------
The yaml syntax to create a single file::

    foo.txt

Files with contents uses the YAML record (associative array) syntax with the
field name (left of colon+space) is the file name, and the value is the file
contents. Eg. a single file containing the text `hello world`::

    foo.txt: hello world

for more text it is better to use a continuation line (``|`` to keep line
breaks and ``>`` to convert single newlines to spaces)::

    foo.txt: |
        Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, vis no altera doctus sanctus,
        oratio euismod suscipiantur ne vix, no duo inimicus
        adversarium. Et amet errem vis. Aeterno accusamus sed ei,
        id eos inermis epicurei. Quo enim sonet iudico ea, usu
        et possit euismod.

creating two (empty) files (YAML list syntax)::

    - foo.txt
    - bar.txt


two files with content (YAML list of records)::

    - foo.txt: |
        hello
    - bar.txt: |
        world


directory with two (empty) files (YAML record field with list value)::

    foo:
        - bar
        - baz


an empty directory must use YAML's inline list syntax::

    foo: []


nested directories with files::

    foo:
        - a.txt: |
            contents of the file named a.txt
        - bar:
            - b.txt: |
                contents of the file named b.txt


.. note:: (Json)
   YAML is a superset of json, so you can also use json syntax if that is more
   convenient.


Extending yamldirs
------------------
To extend ``yamldirs`` to work with other storage backends, you'll need to
inherit from ``yamldirs.filemaker.FilemakerBase`` and override the following
methods::

    class Filemaker(FilemakerBase):
        def goto_directory(self, dirname):
            os.chdir(dirname)

        def makedir(self, dirname, content):
            cwd = os.getcwd()
            os.mkdir(dirname)
            os.chdir(dirname)
            self.make_list(content)
            os.chdir(cwd)

        def make_file(self, filename, content):
            with open(filename, 'w') as fp:
                fp.write(content)

        def make_empty_file(self, fname):
            open(fname, 'w').close()
